---
layout: post
title: Jekyll - Katy Huff
comments: true
category: posts
tags: meeting 
---

# Attending

- Sandra Bogetic
- Alejandra Jolodosky
- Staffan Qvist
- Madicken Munk
- Katy Huff
- Jason Hou
- Daniel Wooten
- Ross Barnowski
- Andy Haefner
- Fatma Imamoglu
- Rachel Slaybaugh
- others...

# Katy Huff

Katy Huff is a postdoc with NSSC and BIDS. 

# Jekyll

This very site is made with Jekyll. Jekyll is a Ruby-based, blog-aware, static 
site generator. 

## Two ways to host your Jekyll site for free on GitHub

Everybody needs a website. Google yourself. What happens? Let's get you a 
website.

## username.github.com master branch

Every time someone creates a user name on github, a special space on the 
internet is reserved for them at theirusername.github.com (and .io, it's a long 
story).

If the user "lisemeitner" existed, then she could create a repository on github 
called "lisemeitner.github.com" (or .io, it's a long story). If that repository 
has a master branch, then GitHub will try to **render** it with Jekyll and 
**serve** it up to the internet at lisemeitner.github.io. Note that jekyll 
plug-ins used by GitHub are very minimal. Try not

If Lise doesn't want to use Jekyll, that's cool. Sites on GitHub can be plain 
boring old html (like [katyhuff.github.io](http://katyhuff.github.io). To keep GitHub from trying to render 
it as jekyll, she has to add an empty file (.nojekyll) in her repository. 
Additionally, an index.html file has to exist at the top level of her 
repository, or else there will be nothing there. 

## gh-pages branch

If Lise also has a project called fission, she can have a website for it too. 
That website can sit on the internet at lisemeitner.github.io/fission. All she 
has to do is put either jekyll stuff or a static html page in the gh-pages 
branch. The same rules apply as far as .nojekyll and plug-ins are concerned.

For an example, check out 
[katyhuff.github.io/cyder](http://katyhuff.github.io/cyder).

## How does the THW site work?

Please look at the readme. We're gonna make some changes.

## What's this config file?

It's for configuring the site, silly! Let's check it out.

## What's all this stuff at the top of the posts?

It's YAML metadata. Let's talk about it. 

## Serving it up locally

So, rather than rely on github to render the jekyll and serve it up on the 
internet, you can also render it locally and check it out on your localhost. 
You'll need to have ruby installed. Then:

    gem install jekyll

Then, if you navigate to a directory containing a jekyll site, you can serve it 
up:

    jekyll serve

Now open a browser and navigate to the localhost url 
[http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000).


## What about themes?

The THW page relies on an open source theme called left. We could swap that out 
for another theme really easily. There are lots on the internets. Try [this 
  page.](http://jekyllthemes.org/) 

# Lightning Talks 

# <+ person +> : <+ topic +>

# <+ person +> : <+ topic +>
