---
layout: post
title: Testing - Rachel Slaybaugh
comments: true
category: posts
tags: meeting
---


## Attending

- 30 or so folks


## Rachel Slaybaugh

Rachel Slaybaugh is an Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering at the
University of California, Berkeley. At Berkeley, Prof. Slaybaugh's research
program is based in computational methods and applied to existing and advanced
nuclear reactors, nuclear non-proliferation and security, and shielding
applications. She received a BS in Nuclear Engineering from Penn State in 2006
where she served as a licensed nuclear reactor operator. Dr. Slaybaugh went on
to the University of Wisconsin – Madison to earn an MS in 2008 and a PhD in
2011 in Nuclear Engineering and Engineering Physics along with a certificate in
 Energy Analysis and Policy. For her PhD she researched acceleration methods for
 massively parallel deterministic neutron transport codes. Dr. Slaybaugh then
worked with hybrid (deterministic-Monte Carlo) methods for shielding
applications at Bettis Laboratory while teaching at the University of Pittsburgh
 as an adjunct faculty member. Throughout her career Dr. Slaybaugh has been
engaged in software carpentry education and training; she also contributes to
the open source project [PyNE](http://pyne.io). Prof. Slaybaugh was awarded the
 2014 American Nuclear Society Young Member Excellence Award.

## Testing

Today's presentation can be found [here](http://rachelslaybaugh.github.io/berkeley/images/2015.03.11-presentation.pdf).

## Lightning Talks

### Kelly Rowland : Sometimes the tests are wrong

But, it's ok. We don't need to enter an infinite recursive testing of tests.
Just keep in mind that sometimes tests need to be updated when the code
interface changes behavior.

### Katy Huff : TravisCI

Check out this continuous integration service. [TravisCI](http://travis-ci.org) is free.

### Brian Hamlin : More TravisCI

Brian gives an example of a travis.yml file.

