---
layout: post
title: When and Where Survey
comments: true
category: posts
tags: meta 
---


# Space and Time

Space and time are complex, coupled problems for THW. We would like a place and
a time that works well for everyone. But, schedules differ, geography is an
issue, and space is hard to come by on this campus.

## Space

There are three possible spaces. 

### 2150 Shattuck, Suite 230

This is the space we've been using for the last year. Many of you know it. It
has lovely light, a lot of chairs, and a nice big round table. Additionally, we
never get kicked out of it for other events, because our events take priority
here. The location may be a downside for those of you who drive or don't like
walking from Etcheverry.

### 190 Doe

[This space][bids] is brand spanking new, and yet, very old. The Berkeley Institute for
Data Science (driven by many of the same concerns that drive The Hacker Within)
has an open, computational-science-focused space that is just being finished
up. It's in the historic Doe library, right at the entrance, so it's very
central and convenient for people coming from any corner of campus. Also, it
looks like a beautiful startup space, it has a camera/screen portal with
the capability to broadcast our meeting to remote viewers, and Katy has the
keys. The construction crew is finishing up some of the A/C in the room this
week, but all the furniture is in and it's ready for excellent events like
this. Go check it out if you don't believe me.  

### 4101 Etcheverry

This conference room is lovely and keeps its guests surrounded by nuclear
engineering books. It's a popular choice for many NE meetings and has a lot of
charm. It is large enough to seat our current meeting attendees, but probably
no more than that. So, consider the ideal size of THW, when you make this
decision. Many might prefer that THW stay the same size it is now. It is a very
convenient location for those of you in Etcheverry, but fairly inconvenient for
those of us who sit in the NSSC space.  

## Time 

In general, we'd like to have the meeting in the afternoon. Three possible
start times have been suggested. These are 3:00, 3:30, and 4:00pm. The meeting
nominally lasts between 1.5 and 2 hours.

Consider your class schedule. Please be generous. It's ok if you have to be 10
minutes late. This is Berkeley. 


## Exercise your rights

We're all equal here. Please exercise your rights by voting in this [online
poll][form] that I've set up. Between this poll and the availability of key
locations, we'll find a place and time. 

[bids]: http://vcresearch.berkeley.edu/sites/default/files/bids_collage.jpg "bids space"
[form]: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1RzUbbpUpNu7jDy166WaAXxwooGmapW15tcDChSNA5W0/viewform?usp=send_form "Form"
